README.md, before:

# Pythia Settings
 The processes chosen were 


![](http://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?q%20&plus;%20%5Cbar%7Bq%7D%20%5Crightarrow%20Z%20&plus;%20g)
and,

![](http://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?q%20&plus;%20g%20%5Crightarrow%20Z%20&plus;%20q)

More details on the settings can be seen ![Here](./process-generation-code/settings-qgZ.cmnd)
Number of Events = 10000
# FastJet Settings
These plots were produced after the events are generated in pythia and then
clustered into jets using anti-kt algorithm using E-Scheme
## Grooming
   The jets were groomed using Soft-Drop algorithm

## E_2
  This was the formula used for the Calculating e2
  

![](http://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?e_2%20%3D%20%5CSigma_%7Bj%20%5Cin%20jet%7D%20z_i%20%5Ctheta_i%5E2)


Where,


![](http://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?z_i%20%5Cequiv%20%5Cfrac%7Bp_%7BTi%7D%7D%7B%5CSigma_%7Bj%20%5Cin%20jet%7D%20p_%7BTj%7D%20%7D%5Cquad%20%5Ctheta_i%20%3D%5Cfrac%7B%20R_%7Bi%20%5Chat%7Bn%7D%7D%7D%7BR%7D)


Reference for the formula of e_2 [[https://arxiv.org/pdf/1704.03878.pdf]]

## Girth
 The Formula for Girth

![](http://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?g%20%3D%20%5Csum%5Climits_%7B%20i%20%5Cin%20jet%7D%20%5Cfrac%7Bp_T%5Ei%7D%7Bp_T%5E%7Bjet%7D%7Dr_i)

We can see this is the same as the formula for e_alpha with alpha = 1 and R = 1

## Tau
 Tau was calcualted using the routine from fastjet contrib

# Plots

 For all the plots the are plotted in a logarithmic scale

For all the Plots the blue lines represent the Gluons and the Red lines represent the Quarks
## Reclustering after softdrop with the defafault CA Algo

### E2

![](./plots/e2.png)
### Girth
![](./plots/girth.png)
### SubJettiness
Normalized with Jet size of 0.6 and Beta = 0.5
![](./plots/tau.png)

## Varying the Value of Alpha_S in timelike showers 

For the Blue Lines Alpha_S = 0.1

For the Red Lines Alpha_S = 0.1383

For the Black Lines Alpha_S = 0.16
### Quarks
![](./plots/alphaSplots/quarks_alpha_S.jpg)

### Gluons
![](./plots/alphaSplots/gluons_alpha_S.jpg)

## Plotting with the Ecal data 
### E2
![](./plots/e2-eflow.png)
### Girth 
![](./plots/girth-eflow.png)
### Subjettiness
![](./plots/tau-eflow.png)

# JetImages
Jet Images were created based on references from these papers (https://arxiv.org/abs/1511.05190) and (https://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5675)

Seen below are the JetImages for Quark and Gluons. These images are pre-processed in such a way that the hardest jet is always centered to the center.
If we look at the JetImages below we see that the jets for gluons are broader than the jets for quarks. 
We knew this from the physics variables such as girth which were related to the radial moments of the jets

The JetImages seen below are average jet images over all the events.

![jetimage](./plotting-code/jet_image.png)

# Neural Network Classification
Based on the JetImages provided above a neural network was employed to classify the images into 2 categories 
## CNN Network
A CNN got an accuracy of 65.9574%
![roc_cnn](./tensorflow-code/roc_cnn.png)
Now, If we Look at the Learning rates of the Network. By Plotting the Accuracy and the Loss with respect to the number of Epochs
![acc_cnn](./tensorflow-code/acc_cnn.png)
![loss_cnn](./tensorflow-code/loss_cnn.png)
## FCC
### MaxOut
Whereas a Fully connected network with Maxout activation neural network got an accuracy of 61.31531%
![roc_maxout](./tensorflow-code/roc_maxout.png)
Learning Rates
![acc_maxout](./tensorflow-code/acc_maxout.png)
![loss_maxout](./tensorflow-code/loss_maxout.png)
### ReLU
and a Fully connected network with ReLU activation neural network got an accuracy of 66.7311%
![roc_relu](./tensorflow-code/roc_relu.png)
Learning Rates
![acc_relu](./tensorflow-code/acc_relu.png)
![loss_relu](./tensorflow-code/loss_relu.png)

# LOG
I have created a file called ![log.org](./log.org) . Progress will be updated there.

Commit message:

Include code for Random Forests

README.md, after:

# Pythia Settings
 The processes chosen were 


![](http://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?q%20&plus;%20%5Cbar%7Bq%7D%20%5Crightarrow%20Z%20&plus;%20g)
and,

![](http://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?q%20&plus;%20g%20%5Crightarrow%20Z%20&plus;%20q)

More details on the settings can be seen ![Here](./process-generation-code/settings-qgZ.cmnd)
Number of Events = 10000
# FastJet Settings
These plots were produced after the events are generated in pythia and then
clustered into jets using anti-kt algorithm using E-Scheme
## Grooming
   The jets were groomed using Soft-Drop algorithm

## E_2
  This was the formula used for the Calculating e2
  

![](http://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?e_2%20%3D%20%5CSigma_%7Bj%20%5Cin%20jet%7D%20z_i%20%5Ctheta_i%5E2)


Where,


![](http://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?z_i%20%5Cequiv%20%5Cfrac%7Bp_%7BTi%7D%7D%7B%5CSigma_%7Bj%20%5Cin%20jet%7D%20p_%7BTj%7D%20%7D%5Cquad%20%5Ctheta_i%20%3D%5Cfrac%7B%20R_%7Bi%20%5Chat%7Bn%7D%7D%7D%7BR%7D)


Reference for the formula of e_2 [[https://arxiv.org/pdf/1704.03878.pdf]]

## Girth
 The Formula for Girth

![](http://latex.codecogs.com/svg.latex?g%20%3D%20%5Csum%5Climits_%7B%20i%20%5Cin%20jet%7D%20%5Cfrac%7Bp_T%5Ei%7D%7Bp_T%5E%7Bjet%7D%7Dr_i)

We can see this is the same as the formula for e_alpha with alpha = 1 and R = 1

## Tau
 Tau was calcualted using the routine from fastjet contrib

# Plots

 For all the plots the are plotted in a logarithmic scale

For all the Plots the blue lines represent the Gluons and the Red lines represent the Quarks
## Reclustering after softdrop with the defafault CA Algo

### E2

![](./plots/e2.png)
### Girth
![](./plots/girth.png)
### SubJettiness
Normalized with Jet size of 0.6 and Beta = 0.5
![](./plots/tau.png)

## Varying the Value of Alpha_S in timelike showers 

For the Blue Lines Alpha_S = 0.1

For the Red Lines Alpha_S = 0.1383

For the Black Lines Alpha_S = 0.16
### Quarks
![](./plots/alphaSplots/quarks_alpha_S.jpg)

### Gluons
![](./plots/alphaSplots/gluons_alpha_S.jpg)

## Plotting with the Ecal data 
### E2
![](./plots/e2-eflow.png)
### Girth 
![](./plots/girth-eflow.png)
### Subjettiness
![](./plots/tau-eflow.png)

# Classification
Now, Based on these Jet Variables, We try to calculate a gluon Jet and a Quark jet. The ROC Curve for such a classification is as follows

## Random Forests
![roc_forest](./plots/ml-plots/roc_forest.png)

## Boosted Decision Trees
![roc_boostedDT](./plots/ml-plots/roc_boosted_DT.png)

# JetImages
Jet Images were created based on references from these papers (https://arxiv.org/abs/1511.05190) and (https://arxiv.org/abs/1407.5675)

Seen below are the JetImages for Quark and Gluons. These images are pre-processed in such a way that the hardest jet is always centered to the center.
If we look at the JetImages below we see that the jets for gluons are broader than the jets for quarks. 
We knew this from the physics variables such as girth which were related to the radial moments of the jets

The JetImages seen below are average jet images over all the events.

![jetimage](./plotting-code/jet_image.png)

# Neural Network Classification
Based on the JetImages provided above a neural network was employed to classify the images into 2 categories 
## CNN Network
A CNN got an accuracy of 65.9574%

![roc_cnn](./plots/ml-plots/roc_cnn.png)
Now, If we Look at the Learning rates of the Network. By Plotting the Accuracy and the Loss with respect to the number of Epochs

![acc_cnn](./plots/ml-plots/acc_cnn.png)
![loss_cnn](./plots/ml-plots/loss_cnn.png)
## FCC
### MaxOut
Whereas a Fully connected network with Maxout activation neural network got an accuracy of 61.31531%

![roc_maxout](./plots/ml-plots/roc_maxout.png)
Learning Rates

![acc_maxout](./plots/ml-plots/acc_maxout.png)
![loss_maxout](./plots/ml-plots/loss_maxout.png)
### ReLU
and a Fully connected network with ReLU activation neural network got an accuracy of 66.7311%

![roc_relu](./plots/ml-plots/roc_relu.png)

Learning Rates

![acc_relu](./plots/ml-plots/acc_relu.png)
![loss_relu](./plots/ml-plots/loss_relu.png)

Now, I have to try to optimize the Hyper Parameters based on Validation sets

# LOG
I have created a file called ![log.org](./log.org) . Progress will be updated there.
